[MONKEYS whooping]
[MONKEY 04A whoops]
[NAGARA whimpers]
[STUDENTS laughing, whooping]
That's such a trippy
effect, isn't it?
‐‐Whoo!
‐‐Awesome!
All right, it's your turn!
It feels great, I swear!
Go on. She's calling you.
No, she's not.
Yes, she is.
She's looking right at you, see?
Will you shut up?
[BOTH gasp]
[STUDENTS laughing, whooping]
Aw, man.
He beat you to the punch.
[BOTH]
Yay!
‐‐So dumb.
‐‐Huh?
Look at us.
It's only fun for people whose
sense of danger is dulled.
It's not like anything
changes once you jump,
you're just down there.
It's exactly the sort
of thing I don't‐‐
[ACE]
Hurry up and go!
[NAGARA]
Ah!
[STUDENTS gasping, screaming]
Oh, crap!
‐‐[ASAKAZE] For the love of‐‐
‐‐[NOZOMI] Wait.
I really shouldn't.
[NAGARA grunts]
[STUDENTS gasping]
[NAGARA gasps]
[gasps]
[NOTO]
What was that...?
Our world, right?
It looked like it.
Did we just go home?
[NOZOMI]
Hmph.
[HOSHI]
Your ability's impressive.
You can accomplish anything.
[RAJDHANI]
I wouldn't go that far.
It just comes in handy is all.
It can't exactly rock the world.
Know what I mean?
[MACHI] Speaking of,
this place is pretty unfair.
I mean, there's one person
who doesn't have to trade
like the rest of us.
It's true. There are definitely
people who get special treatment
for one reason or another.
[HOSHI]
Is the plan coming along?
Uh, yeah.
The pieces are starting
to come together,
but we're still missing
some key elements.
[HOSHI]
It'll be fine.
Someone will eventually
show up and save us.
[NOZOMI]
Mm! This is good!
[MIZUHO] Spicy though.
Hand me that water.
[ASAKAZE] You know, we could
probably get back home
with his power.
[ASAKAZE]
We did for a second earlier.
Sure, but who says it's
my power in the first place?
[ASAKAZE]
What does that mean?
Don't be so contrarian.
You did it before, didn't you?
"Warped" or whatever.
Rajdhani says it was you.
Didn't he? Now do it.
[NAGARA]
I'm really not sure it's me.
It doesn't feel like
I'm doing anything.
[ASAKAZE sighs]
Man, you are so useless.
People are getting pissed.
Get your shit together.
[NAGARA grunts]
[MIZUHO] It's not like it's
guaranteed that was our world.
[NOZOMI]
Hmm. Yeah, good point.
It wasn't the "light,"
I know that much.
Wanna have Rajdhani
look into it tomorrow?
The monkey...
‐‐[NOZOMI] Hmm?
‐‐[CAP] Special delivery.
Yo. You guys having dinner here?
Tch.
Uh‐‐
Uh...
[CAP groans softly]
[MIZUHO]
He's still upset.
I said I was sorry.
He just can't seem to let it go.
What a child.
I take it carrying that stuff
here's your job, Cap?
Couldn't you use
your power to help?
What is it?
Oh, it's stupid.
Nothing fancy like
some of the others.
Don't wanna bore you with it.
Oh, Nagara!
Wanna play a little baseball
together again sometime?
[groans]
Where did that come from?
[CAP] I have to practice once
in a while, or I'll get rusty.
Why not join me?
[NOZOMI]
You were in the baseball club?
That's a shocker.
[NAGARA]
I... don't remember.
[CAP] Don't be an idiot!
How could you forget it?
During our last little
league tournament,
your three consecutive
errors cost us the game!
[NAGARA]
Oh, did they? Huh...
[CAP] If it weren't for that,
we could've gone to nationals!
[NAGARA sighs softly]
Hey bud. You okay?
There's always Ace, right?
Why don't you go play with him?
Right.
Like you don't know
the guy hates to practice.
Plus, he's too busy
with his girlfriend lately.
Oh, yeah, that girl.
It sure must be nice
to be a chick magnet, huh?
[MIZUHO] Hey, any of you
heard what Ace's power is?
[CAP]
I haven't.
[NOZOMI]
What is it?
[MIZUHO]
Apparently, it's "Sweetwater."
[NOZOMI]
Uh, what does that mean?
[MIZUHO]
What it sounds like.
Supposedly, he can
make any water taste good.
So stupid! The guy
acts like a hotshot,
but all he can do is drink muddy
water and say it tastes good.
Wait. If you wanna
practice baseball,
does that mean you have
a place to play?
Uh‐huh.
As a matter of fact, I made
a diamond not far from here.
Wow, really?
Yup.
Impressive.
[NOZOMI grunts]
[NAGARA gasps]
[MONKEY 04A shrieks]
‐‐[NOZOMI] Uh...
‐‐[MIZUHO gasps]
What the hell? Monkeys?
[MONKEYS gibbering]
[CAP]
Awesome, transfer kid!
Nobody's been able to beat
the Rock Monster since Steroid!
Uh? Who is that?
Steroid Monkey, duh!
The eight‐time record‐setter for
home runs in the Monkey League?
And the Monkey League
is what again?
Guh! You really don't know?!
Oh, right.
I guess you can't see them,
that makes sense.
Sorry about that!
The Monkey League...
It's a baseball league comprised
entirely of the monkeys
in the world of Monkey Mountain.
It all started when the rules of
the game and a ball and bat
were first gifted to them.
Even though pretty much all
the monkeys looked the same‐‐
y'know, 'cuz
they're monkeys‐‐
the best players began to stand
out as they rose in the ranks
of the league.
This includes
the legendary home run king,
who batted an unprecedented
80 home runs in one year.
Steroid Monkey.
The one who
bested Monkey River,
the "god of batting's"
career batting average
by two thousandths.
The miracle hitting machine.
Upper Monkey.
And the greatest catcher
of the Bigfoot era:
Mister Monkey.
Who, as manager,
would go on to break the record
for most league wins,
with a legendary
ten‐season‐long streak!
Then came the golden age
of the M‐League.
A miracle monkey
came along and surpassed
the previous greats one by one.
Monkey Blue!
This maverick was the
only one with blue hair,
who, despite facing cruel
discrimination and persecution,
triumphed over his peers
with devastating talent,
ultimately becoming a hero,
and a symbol of hope
for the monkeys!
Still a rookie,
Blue drove the king,
Steroid Monkey, to retirement.
Breaking his bat,
as well as his heart.
Then, with his mighty pitching
arm, Blue led the underdog team
Monkey Club to victory, stopping
Bigfoot's streak at ten.
The public accepted his unique
hair color and the era
of Monkey Blue
had officially begun!
But then, the great
tragedy happened.
A near‐perfect game was ruined
and a monkey was killed.
I'm sold! I wanna
see these monkeys!
Uh, you do?
They sound cool! I'm in!
Right?!
I want one as a pet
after hearing that story.
Where can we see them?
[CAP sighs]
Right here.
Uh. Sorry?
[CAP]
You can catch 'em here.
[NOZOMI]
Mm. Like, where we're standing?
[CAP]
Yup. This very spot.
But it's not like you
can just wait for them
to show up or anything.
You need a specific piece of
gear if you wanna see 'em.
We do?
What kind of gear?
[ACE]
Oh, the monkeys?
That's right.
If you wanna see them, you gotta
use one of these puppies.
A Monkey Getter.
Wanna borrow it?
[BOTH gasp]
No! No way in hell!
Mm!
‐‐[TORA] Mrr?
‐‐[NAGARA sighs]
[MIZUHO] Fine. Name your
price‐‐I'll pay it. See?
That won't help, she just
doesn't like you two, I guess.
What's her problem?
We just wanna see the monkeys‐‐
why's she gotta
keep that from us?
What's our move? We steal it?
Threaten 'em?
Fight 'em? Trick 'em?
Can you not?
Then what do you suggest?
Hey. How do you know about
the monkeys in the first place?
I'm curious.
During baseball
practice with Cap,
he told us all about them.
‐‐But, uh...
‐‐Huh?
Does that thing actually
let you see them?
Why? Are you doubting me?
What? No.
I've got no reason to.
I guess I can't blame you.
It does look like just
a regular flashlight.
But it's not. If you
shine it on yourself,
then you're able
to see the monkeys.
Or rather, the world the
monkeys live in, technically.
[NAGARA]
Huh.
Y'know what?
We were teammates.
Yeah, you can take it,
for old time's sake.
Seriously?
On one condition.
You've already
got some practice in.
So, play against me, and if you
win, then you can borrow it.
A one‐inning game.
If any of you actually hit one
of my pitches without fouling,
then you guys win.
Whaddya say?
Yeah, no thanks.
Challenge accepted!
[NAGARA grunts]
[ACE]
Heh. That's more like it.
But I'm not playing for nothing.
I want something in return.
If you guys lose...
‐‐[NOZOMI] Huh?
‐‐[MIZUHO] Huh...?
Wait, but I‐‐!
Then it's settled!
C'mon, you're not even close!
Stop dropping your elbow
and keep your head up!
I don't think I have
a chance against him.
[CAP]
Welp. I don't disagree.
So what's the deal?
Is he that good?
Yeah, the guy's a prodigy.
He's already had some pros
come asking about him.
Wow. Then he must be good.
[MIZUHO]
Hey!
Talkin' like you've
already lost isn't helping!
You better at least try to win!
If you don't believe
in yourself, who will?
[NAGARA] I've never counted
on myself for anything.
[MIZUHO groans]
'Cuz I can't.
[CAP] Hey, man, you never
know what's gonna happen
in a real game.
Just do your best
and hope for a miracle.
By the way, what did Ace
want if he wins this?
Oh, nothing worth mentioning.
[NOZOMI]
Hmm.
[RAJDHANI]
You're not playing baseball?
They'd have it in
the bag with you there.
[ASAKAZE] Why would I
wanna see some monkeys?
Or that idiot.
I'm just curious about the
gadget, the flashlight‐‐
the "Monkey Getter"!
If it actually exists, it'll
completely change the way
I view the world.
Doesn't interest me. As soon
as Nagara masters his power,
we'll be out of here anyway.
[RAJDHANI] Mm... I don't know
if it'll be quite that simple.
[CAP] It had been
Blue's greatest season yet.
Every game, he pitched
the full nine innings
and came out on top.
That's a league‐high 32 wins,
with the team claiming
its second title in a row.
Then, in the final game
of the season,
Blue was closing in on pitching
an absolutely perfect game!
Monkey Club's lead was huge.
16‐0 going into
the final inning.
Bottom of the 9th, two outs.
Blue had struck out 26 batters
on 80 pitches and served
the last batter two strikes
in quick order!
The stadium was packed,
but the crowd was waiting
with bated breath for the last
pitch and resulting call.
All eyes were locked on Blue,
each monkey watching
every minute move he made!
They were all certain they were
about to witness a perfect game!
No doubt!
And yet, there was
unease in the air.
In the moment,
only one monkey felt it.
The umpire, who wasn't used to
that kind of pressure yet.
Then the world went off‐kilter.
The 81st pitch!
It was by no means
a careless pitch.
Blue was too good for that.
The world itself had slipped!
And no, before you say anything,
I'm not just being
biased towards Blue.
It actually happened!
The world around them moved!
Just a little bit.
But it's the truth!
Whether it was a strike
or a ball was up for debate.
It could have slightly
missed the strike zone,
but it was anyone's guess.
And the umpire making the
call was the one monkey
in that stadium‐‐
No, anywhere,
who wouldn't even consider
that the world slipped!
[UMPIRE MONKEY shrieks]
[MONKEY CROWD booing]
[CAP] All together,
the crowd rose to their feet!
They started tearing out their
hair and stomping the dirt!
They were booing
as loud as they could!
The umpire firmly refused
to check the video replay.
Blue was clearly upset
and charged the umpire!
"That was a strike!"
But the umpire quietly
shook his head.
"Are you out of your mind?!
That pitch would have sealed
an absolutely perfect game!"
The umpire replied.
"I am aware."
"You're missing the point!
Why didn't you just
call that ball a strike?
We all know who's
gonna win at this point!
On top of that, the other
team's thrown in the towel!
The batter knows
he couldn't hit it!
It didn't matter what
you called that pitch,
the game is basically over!
So why wouldn't you
just call it a strike?!
What was the point
of doing that?
I mean, you had to have
heard the cheers of hope
and anticipation
this whole time!
You know just as well
as I do that this isn't
the outcome they wanted!"
"I am aware of that, as well."
So... then why?
[CAP] "The hopes of the crowd
have no influence on this game.
Inside this stadium,
there are rules.
No matter how you may feel,
everyone should be
treated equally here."
"You're wrong!
This is a baseball show!
And everyone is pinning their
hopes and dreams on me!
I'm carrying the weight of the
whole Monkey League on my back!
Right here, right now,
I am the rules!
Reverse your decision!"
Blue's huge hands were
trembling as he spoke.
"I can't do that."
The umpire was unflinching.
"Right here, right now,
I am the rules."
Blue knew the truth, too.
The replay was
on the big screen.
The fact was,
due to the world slipping,
the ball had missed the strike
zone by no more than a micron!
But Blue couldn't bring himself
to accept that decision.
When the game resumed,
Blue pitched the exact same way.
He matched the speed perfectly,
and the course was identical,
three times in a row.
All were balls.
Blue spiked his glove to
the mound and walked off.
At the sight of this, the
spectators began rioting!
As the crowd
rushed onto the field,
they all charged at the umpire!
‐‐[MONKEY 04A shrieks]
‐‐[gasps]
[CAP] While the terrified
batter looked on,
the umpire had
his head beaten in,
and the crowd tore him
limb from limb.
His thin, scruffy body was
stepped on, ripped apart,
spat on, and took
its last breath.
[MIZUHO]
Man... The monkey died.
[NAGARA]
All over a game of baseball.
[CAP] Everyone's hopes
and dreams were with Blue
for that last pitch.
[NOZOMI]
What an amazing monkey.
[CAP] That's for sure.
Blue was the best pitcher ever.
Not him, the umpire.
[CAP]
Uh?
He won, against
the entire world.
You're exaggerating.
[NOZOMI]
Nagara, don't you feel anything?
[NAGARA]
Huh?
Don't you feel angry at all?
[gasps]
Hmm...
I don't know...
[CAP]
Strike! Batter out!
‐‐Hah. Nice try!
‐‐Aw, man!
It's only right‐‐
they had to kill the ump.
I mean, who wants to live in
a world where the talented
are held back by
the whims of the mediocre?
[CAP]
Foul!
[whistles]
[ACE]
Her form is pretty, but crude.
At her level,
she'll never even see
my lightning fastball coming.
[CAP]
Strike two!
[GAME CROWD laughing, chatting]
[CAP]
Strike three! Batter out!
[laughing, chatting continues]
Good luck.
[CAP]
That's strike one!
Strike two!
So. What do you think
of my pitching, man?
It's really good. I doubt
there's any way I can hit one.
[ACE]
You just don't feel like trying.
I know my limits.
[ACE growls]
Why am I not...?
‐‐[NAGARA grunts]
‐‐[CAP] Ball!
Hey, watch where
you're throwing that!
Yeah, you were trying
to hit him with that one!
Eject him!
The guy is so lame, I swear!
Yeah, he's lucky he's handsome.
Hey, you okay?
[ACE]
I gave baseball to the monkeys.
I did.
[ACE]
I'm special.
[ACE] If you lose,
then you have to return us
to our world as
soon as possible.
And don't try to
tell me you can't.
People talk. You're
our "savior," aren't you?
Ah. Whaddya mean? I'm not any‐‐
[ACE] Just looking at you
now makes me wanna puke.
I can't believe someone
like you got chosen.
[ACE]
This world is all upside down.
Bring us back to the one
where I'm properly appreciated.
That's what your power's
really meant for.
[NAGARA]
I... don't know if I can.
Do it. Even if it kills you.
[gasps]
What? A monkey?
[NAGARA]
A one‐armed monkey...
[ACE gasps]
[CAP]
How did you know he had one arm?
Can you see the umpire?
[NAGARA] You... wanted to be a
baseball player too, didn't you?
But... you couldn't.
[NAGARA] Yet you were
still drawn to the fairness
of baseball, cruel as it may be,
and became an umpire.
[NAGARA]
You were right there,
protecting the game
that whole time.
[gasps] What was killed
wasn't the umpire...
‐‐[ACE] Uh?
‐‐It was baseball itself.
[ACE] Huh? What are
you talking abou‐‐?
I saw it.
[ASAKAZE]
Damn. So he really can do it.
[gasping]
[ACE] Trash.
Don't get full of yourself.
That's it.
You got this!
Strike!
Batter out!
Ugh! You idiot!
[HAYATO]
That was awesome, Nagara!
[SHIIBA]
And crazy!
[NOZOMI] Too bad.
But that was a nice swing.
[NAGARA]
Mm. Mm‐hmm.
Guess we lose.
No monkeys for us.
Thirsty?
[NAGARA]
Thanks.
Hey, you've got
something stuck on you.
[NAGARA grunts]
What the‐‐?
What is this?
[MIZUHO]
It's not from my cats.
Some kinda fur?
[CAP]
When did it get stuck to you?
[ACE]
Here to make me feel better?
This isn't where
we're supposed to be.
[CAP] Looks like today's the
last day of life on the island.
[CAP]
I'm gonna miss it.
Oh. I suppose.
[CAP]
Y'know. For awhile now,
I've actually been thinking
of quitting baseball.
Why?
I'm nowhere near talented enough
to play in the big leagues.
I know that better than anyone.
A long time ago, we all just
played for the fun of it,
kinda like the monkeys.
But before we knew it, it
became about whether we had
the talent, or if it would
get us into college.
And soon enough, that was all
we could really think about.
But it's funny.
Watching those monkeys play,
I couldn't sit still,
I was drawn in again!
I dunno how to say it, but for
the first time in a while,
I felt like...
"I wanna play baseball!"
And by the time
I realized that,
this field was
basically finished.
It's strange, isn't it?
I don't have
the chops for baseball,
but it's all I ever think about.
[NAGARA]
That's not so strange.
[CAP]
It's not?
[NAGARA]
Mm.
[chuckles]
[STUDENTS murmuring]
‐‐[HOSHI] Well?
‐‐[NOZOMI] Hmm?
Here we are.
Think the plan will work?
[NOZOMI] Maybe. All I know
is it's an amazing power.
We can go anywhere!
[MACHI]
Really?
I must admit...
I have my doubts.
[RAJDHANI]
She's not lying.
But I'm not sure
it'll be exactly like
everyone's imagining, either.
Nagara's gotten to the point
where he can control
his warping power.
Which means we're
finally out of this place.
Now, ready to go back home?
[STUDENTS cheering]
[ACE]
Go on, do it.
[NAGARA]
Hmm... All right.
[STUDENTS whimpering]
[gasps]
[STUDENTS gasping]
What the‐‐ Where are we?
Uh‐oh, this isn't right.
[STUDENTS gasping]
[NAGARA]
This isn't it, either.
[STUDENTS murmuring]
[NAGARA whimpers]
[SHANGHAI growls]
Where's the school, already?
Can we speed this up?
[KUJI]
That's enough showing off, dude.
Come on! What's wrong with you?!
[NAGARA]
I can't go back.
Huh?!
[NAGARA]
Not just to our world.
I can't seem to go where I want.
He's as worthless as I thought.
[STUDENT 04A]
Aww, are you serious?
[STUDENT 04B] Yeah,
that's about what I figured.
‐‐[ACE growls]
‐‐[NOTO] Well, that sucked.
And that pretty much
clears that up.
For starters, Nagara
has the power to move
to other THIS Worlds.
He also can't choose
where he goes.
I mean, It's hard to imagine
he'd choose to come back
to this world we've
been stuck in.
Hey, guys.
Are you all seeing this?
[STUDENTS gasping]
[MACHI gasps]
Ms. Aki?
[STUDENTS murmuring]
[STUDENT 04A]
A teacher?
[STUDENT 04B] Someone else
besides us got sent here?!
[STUDENT 04C]
Maybe she can save us!
Shut up, you worms!
[gasping]
The fun and games end today.